Marshaling and Unmarshalling
For the next 100 days I hope to come here to drop a bit or two concepts I learnt or practice in Go, the programming language. A language I recently discovered to be my most loved language since I've decided to specialize in backend engineering. 
Today's Concept is Marshaling and Unmarshalling json in Go. If you are already familiar with the concept Serialization and Deserialization in other programming languages like python or God forbid JavaScript , this article is probably not for you, all you need to know now is that Marshaling is Serialization and Unmarshalling is Deserialization. There you go and thank you for coming, bye 
oh wait since you're here, you probably want to know how it's done in Go. Read on for I might even succeed converting you to a Gopher . 
For those of you wondering why it's called marshalling and not Serialization we all are familiar with, well I had the same confusion when I started the language too! and it turns out that marshalling is an actual computing word in the dictionary:  "it's the process of transforming the memory representation of an object to a data format suitable for storage or transmission, which is typically used when data must be moved between different parts of a computer program, or from one program to another". In other words, converting memory data into bytes representation that can be saved as a text or transmitted over the network. This definition best fit the concept than serialization to me! 
Ok for my fellow Software Engineering learners who don't understand the jargons above, it's time we talk about what marshalling/Serialization really is all about. 
oftentimes, programs/ applications need to talk to one another. for instance a frontend React App may need a list of articles from the backend application, say Go server (not node please ). The Go backend Server fetches the articles from the database and perform it's operations on the data then prepares the data to be sent via the network to the frontend App which is in a JavaScript land, another programming language. the data in the server is a list or array of articles in Go data structure, meaning only Go can understand what the data is all about. and you know data is represented in memory, so in order to send this data to the frontend, the data needs to be converted into a common structure that is easier to be transmitted over the wire (internet) and also understandable by another language, JavaScript in the frontend. This format agreed upon by these two applications is JSON. it's a universal format of data that all languages can read and understand. 
so Go way of converting it's data to json representation of the data is what we call JSON Marshalling. in other languages like python, it's called Serialization. 
The opposite is Unmarshalling. That is when a go server sends a request to another program and gets the data as a JSON bytes, it converts/transform it to Go data structure so that it can understand and perform other operations on the data. in other languages, it's called Deserialization. 
so let's do a simple programming 
str, err := json.marshall(data)this str can then be send over the internet or saved to a file or saved to the database as a JSON blob. 
I'll be in the comment section for any question or remarks or further discussions.
#100DaysOfGolang
